---
layout: page
title: "OAuth"
category: setup
order: 2
date: 2015-06-09 10:06:44
---

### Introduction
The Trak.tv API uses OAuth. OAuth can be a bit hard to wrap your head around when it's the first time you use it. 

In general, OAuth is a way for third party apps to authenticate a user without asking their user name and password. 
You might know the flow of an facebook/twitter/google login on an other site? That's the OAuth flow. A user is 
directed to a page from the service we need information from, logs in, grants the site or app access and is redirected 
back to the site or app that needs the information. For the user, it's a simple flow. For us as developers its a bit 
complicated.

#### OAuth Cycle
The OAuth cycle is done in three steps: 

1.  Redirecting to the application you need access to (in our case, it's Trakt.tv). On the screen the user sees, he grants 
access to your application from the Trakt.tv website.
2. Trakt redirects back to a provided (and registered) url with a temporary `code` parameter in the url.
3. You can now request the OAuth access token with the code trakt just provided you.

In order for your redirect uri's to work (step two of the flow), you need to register your redirect url in your Trakt 
API Apps page. When you create an API App, you are asked for redirect uri's. Here you can place all redirect uri's 
this API App uses, each on a new line.

### Implementation
This wrapper makes it easy to preform these three steps. The code below is demonstrated inside an [Lumen][lumen] 
application.

```PHP
<?php

// file: app/Http/routes.php

use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input;
use Wubs\Trakt\Trakt;

//register the index route, this method is executed when visiting http://your-url.app/
$app->get(
    '/',
    function (Trakt $trakt) {
        //this wil redirect you to the trakt website and, after authorization by the user, trakt will redirect back.
        $trakt->auth->authorize();
    }
);

//register the oauth callback route. This route is given as the redirect url when creating the Trakt instance.
$app->get(
    'trakt/oauth',
    function (Trakt $trakt) {
        $code = Input::get('code');
        $accessToken = $trakt->auth->token($code);
        dump($accessToken); 
    }
);
```

To be able to receive this callback when working locally (note, I'm using the `.app` domain extension), edit your 
`/etc/hosts/` file (I don't know the location of this file on Windows) and add an alias to your local development 
server, like so:

```TEXT
192.168.10.10	your-url.app
```

If you want to use [Lumen][lumen] or [Laravel][laravel] as your development framework, but you have no idea where to 
start, read my detailed guide [here][laravel-5-setup]. It only talks about Laravel, but Lumen is almost the same.

### Reusing the Access Token

In the above example the token gets dumped out on the screen. This token is an instance of 
`League\OAuth2\Client\Token\AccessToken`. This token instance is sometimes required and sometimes optional on certain
 methods.
 
When you want to reuse the token, you need to store it somewhere and create an 
instance of`League\OAuth2\Client\Token\AccessToken`. This can be done through 

```php
<?php
$token = $trakt->auth->createToken($token,$type, $expires, $refresh, $scope); //returns an instance of League\OAuth2\Client\Token\AccessToken
$calendar = $trakt->calendars->my->movies($token); //get your personal movies calendar
```


[lumen]: http://lumen.laravel.com
[laravel]: http://laravel.com
[laravel-5-setup]: http://blog.wubsinfo.nl/laravel/2015/03/22/setup-laravel-5-development-environment/